---
title: "Deadlines"
description: An offline deadline tracker I built to track school deadlines
tags:
  - Nuxt
  - Vue
  - Tailwind CSS
  - localForage
live_url: "https://deadlines.minch.dev"
source_url: "https://github.com/oneminch/Deadlines"
image: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oneminch/Deadlines/main/public/screenshot.png"
icon: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/oneminch/Deadlines/main/public/logo.svg"
---

## What is Deadlines?

Deadlines is an offline tool I built for tracking deadlines.

## Why Did You Build It?

While in school, I wanted a way to keep track of all the deadlines I have coming up. Online calendars and todo lists were too bloated for me, so I ended up making a minimal web app.

## How Did You Build It?

For the first version of the project, I used Vue for the UI as I was learning it at the time. I wanted to store data locally, but still have a way to import and export data seamlessly, so I used the localForage library to implement offline storage. localForage provides a simple wrapper around browser storage APIs, so this allowed consistent cross-browser supported storage. I also built in the functionality to export and import data using JSON files with defined schemas to validate imported data. I started working on this version back in 2020.

Since Deadlines was the first project I built that people ended up using, I has a special place in my heart. I was made using Vue 2, which has reached EOL as of December 2023. This change motivated me to rework the project, which I did from scratch using Nuxt, localForage and what I have learned over the years about design & development. The currently live version is version 2.0.

## What Tools Did You Use?

- **Frontend**: `Nuxt`, `Vue`, `Tailwind CSS`
- **Storage**: `localForage`
- **Deployment**: `Cloudflare Pages`
